DAA is software tool used to assess the psychomotor and simple logic and reasoning of potential learners, to determine if they are capable of operating heavy equipment safely.Psychomotor ability refers to a wide range of actions involving physical movement related to conscious cognitive processing. The psychomotor domain includes physical movement, coordination, and use of the motor-skill areas. Development of these skills requires practice and is measured in terms of speed, precision, distance, procedures, or techniques in execution.

This initial test consists of challenges according to Simpson’s Psychomotor Domain - which are especially useful for developing skills in adults that take people out of their comfort zones like heavy equipment operation. It may be used as tool to improve psychomotor ability. 

In future, it may scale into a medical/sports diagnostic tool - including sobriety tests at mines - and skills database - depending on tests added to the system.




1st Phase - Perception (awareness): The ability to use sensory cues to guide motor activity.  This ranges from sensory stimulation, through cue selection, to translation.

Detects non-verbal communication cues. Estimate where a ball will land after it is thrown and then moving to the correct location to catch the ball. Adjusts heat of stove to correct temperature by smell and taste of food. Adjusts the height of the forks on a forklift by comparing where the forks are in relation to the pallet. 

Chooses, describes, detects, differentiates, distinguishes, identifies, isolates, relates, selects. 

Simple color (6)/sound recognition (2)/- Introduction to controls and prompts. - 5 minutes




2nd Phase - Set: Readiness to act. It includes mental, physical, and emotional sets. These three sets are dispositions that predetermine a person's response to different situations (sometimes called mindsets). 

Begins, displays, explains, moves, proceeds, reacts, shows, states, volunteers.

Guided Response: The early stages in learning a complex skill that includes imitation and trial and error. Adequacy of performance is achieved by practicing. 

Copies, traces, follows, react, reproduce, responds.

Hand - Foot - Eye Coordination using audio/visual prompts at increaing speed to determine baseline - where 3 or more mistakes occur consequetively over a period of 15 seconds, for example. 25 minutes ~ Concentration and focus

	MO_Increasing speen of cues until learner makes 3 mistakes consequetively, intermittently for 1 minute



3rd Phase - Mechanism (basic proficiency): This is the intermediate stage in learning a complex skill. Learned responses have become habitual and the movements can be performed with some confidence and proficiency. 

Assembles, calibrates, constructs, dismantles, displays, fastens, fixes, grinds, heats, manipulates, measures, mends, mixes, organizes, sketches.  


Reason and logic - Solve a simple problem related to equipment operation using controls within a deadline. - 30 minutes

	MO_Increasing complexity of maze and enemies 
	
	
	
	
Maze and gate construction grid generated using squares gate 1,2,3,4,5,6 and maze 4,9,16,25,36,49
Freight generated by 1,1,2,1,3,2,5,3,8,5



CUES: Visual - Shapes of different colors
	Audio - alarms of different tones
	
RESPONSE: Press buttons, footpedals, joysticks as instructed.


SCORING

Depending on the stimulus / reaction mode, the variables Median reaction time, Number of correct reactions (on time, delayed), Number of incorrect reactions, Number of omitted reactions, and Number of stimuli are scored.







